
  Slackware IDE bootdisks
  -----------------------

  This directory contains a collection of batch files used to create Slackware
  bootdisks.  To create a disk, just put a formatted floppy disk in your drive
  and choose one of the options listed below to make the disk.  Read all of the
  choices carefully to pick the disk that best matches the hardware in your
  machine.  NOTE:  Using the VIEW program to create the Slackware bootdisks
  may not work under Windows95 and 98.  If you're running Windows, you should
  restart your machine in MS-DOS mode before creating a bootdisk.

  NOTE:  All of these disks contain support for IDE hard drives and CDROM
         drives.  If you have additional equipment, look for the disk that
         supports it.

  Name        Additional driver support
  ----        -------------------------

aztech.bat         CD-ROM drives:  Aztech CDA268-01A, Orchid CD-3110,
                   Okano/Wearnes CDD110, Conrad TXC, CyCDROM CR520, CR540.

bare.bat           This is the disk to use for installation on most IDE
                   based PCs.  It includes support for IDE/ATAPI CD-ROM
                   drives.  Most CD-ROM drives made today fall into this
                   catagory.
  
bareapm.bat        This disk is the same as the bare.i image, with the
                   addition of Advanced Power Management support.  This
                   is usually used on laptops to check the battery
                   level, or to put the machine in standby or sleep mode.
                   On machines that aren't laptops, it can cause booting
                   problems.  This is the correct disk to use for a PCMCIA
                   install.

cdu31a.bat         Sony CDU31/33a CD-ROM.

cdu535.bat         Sony CDU531/535 CD-ROM.

cm206.bat          Philips/LMS cm206 CD-ROM with cm260 adapter card.

goldstar.bat       Goldstar R420 CD-ROM  (sometimes sold in a 'Reveal
                   Multimedia Kit').
   
isp16.bat          Supports ISP16/MAD16/Mozart CD-ROM drives.
                   Boot time command line options (or 'append=' options
                   in /etc/lilo.conf) are:
 
                   isp16=<port>,<irq>,<dma>,<drive_type>

                   Valid values for drive_type include: Sanyo, Panasonic
                   (same as Sanyo), Sony and Mitsumi.  Default values are:
                   port=0x340, irq=0, dma=0, drive_type=Sanyo.

lowmem.bat         This is a really stripped-down Linux kernel which might
                   be useful for installing on IDE systems with a low
                   amount of RAM (less than 8MB).  If bare.i runs into
                   problems, you might try this.  NOTE:  On systems with
                   extremely low memory (4MB), ZipSlack plus the
                   fourmeg.zip add-on (found in the zipslack directory)
                   may boot and run even in cases where lowmem.i doesn't.

mcd.bat            NON-IDE Mitsumi CD-ROM support.

mcdx.bat           Improved NON-IDE Mitsumi CD-ROM support.

net.bat            An IDE/ATAPI bootdisk with Ethernet support.  Use this
                   for installing over a network to an IDE hard drive.

                   NOTE:  net.i, while a nice shortcut if it works, does
                   not work on every machine, nor does it include every
                   Linux network driver.  Because of the large number of
                   devices it looks for, it can hang the machine or cause
                   other problems if it misidentifies something.  This is
                   an unavoidable risk when probing for hardware on the PC
                   platform.

                   If you run into problems with net.i (or it doesn't see
                   your network card), don't panic, just use a disk with
                   less drivers.  If you're not installing over the
                   network, bare.i is probably the right choice.  If you
                   need network support, use bare.i, plus put 'insmod' and
                   the required network modules on another floppy to load
                   before running setup.  The README files in the 
                   ../modules directory explain this process in detail.

                   This disk also includes PLIP support, but you'll need
                   to pass a parameter to the kernel to tell the parallel
                   port driver which IRQ to use.  For example, if you want
                   to use a parallel port on 0x378, IRQ 7, you would use
                   this command on the bootdisk's 'boot:' prompt:

                   ramdisk parport=0x378,7

                   You may also use this command to make the driver
                   autodetect your port and IRQ:

                   ramdisk parport=auto

no_kbd.bat         This version of bare.i is a workaround for a problem:
                   Some newer P2/Celeron systems have been known to 
                   reboot themselves as the kernel is starting up.  This
                   seems to happen as the keyboard LEDs are reset.  The
                   no_kbd.i does not reset the keyboard LEDs, and will 
                   boot correctly on most machines with this symptom.
                   A BIOS upgrade from the motherboard manufacturer may
                   fix the problem.

no_pci.bat         If you're having problems with a hang during PCI
                   probing, try this IDE-supporting bootdisk without PCI
                   BIOS support.  Some old PCI motherboards have BIOS
                   bugs and may crash if "PCI bios support" is enabled,
                   but they run fine without this option.  In many cases
                   the BIOS can be fixed with a flash update from the
                   motherboard manufacturer's web site.
 
optics.bat         Optics Storage 8000 AT CD-ROM (the 'DOLPHIN' drive).

pportide.bat       This is an extended version of bare.i will support for
                   a wide variety of parallel-port IDE devices.  Supports
                   parallel-port products from MicroSolutions, 
                   Hewlett-Packard, SyQuest, Imation, Avatar, and other
                   manufacturers.

sanyo.bat          Sanyo CDR-H94A CD-ROM support.

sbpcd.bat          Matsushita, Kotobuki, Panasonic, CreativeLabs 
                   (Sound Blaster), Longshine and Teac NON-IDE CD-ROM
                   support.  IMPORTANT!  I can't possibly stress enough
                   that this disk is *not* for IDE/ATAPI CD-ROM drives,
                   which include nearly all of the drives made by these
                   manufacturers recently.  For IDE/ATAPI CD-ROM drives,
                   use bare.i.

smp.bat            This disk is the same as the generic bare.i bootdisk,
                   but adds support for motherboards with multiple CPUs.
                   (symmetric multiprocessing, or SMP)

xt.bat             MFM (very very old) hard drive support.

