 LINUX ROOTDISKS

 The Linux "rootdisk" contains the actual installation software.  You use
 a bootdisk to load it into your system and begin the installation.  You'll
 probably want to use either the color or the umsdos disk to install Linux
 depending on whether you'll be installing it in its own partition.

README.TXT    Detailed descriptions of the root disk images.

 Now, choose one of the boot disk images below.  Hitting ENTER will create
 a boot disk in drive A:

color.bat    This is the default Slackware installation disk, used to install
             Slackware Linux to its own partition.  The name color.gz comes
             from the color menus used to install Slackware.  This is the 
             installation disk most people should use.  NOTE: The 'dialog'
             program used by the install system is not forgiving of extra
             keystrokes entered between screens, so type carefully.

umsdos.bat   This is similar to the color.gz disk, but installs using UMSDOS,
             a system that allows you to install Slackware into a directory
             on an existing MS-DOS partition.  This isn't as fast as using a
             native Linux filesystem, and can use more drive space because of
             limitations in the way DOS stores small files.  The big advantage
             of using UMSDOS is that you can try Slackware without
             repartitioning your hard drive.  This is much easier for the
             beginner, and a lot less potentially dangerous to your system.

             [NOTE: If you want to use UMSDOS, you might want to consider
             using the ZipSlack installation found in the /zipslack
             directory.  This is a little easier way to get started -- just
             unzip a file on your FAT or FAT32 partition to install Linux. ]

pcmcia.bat   This is a version of the color.gz rootdisk with added support
             for PCMCIA cards.  You should use this disk to install to a
             laptop through the network using NFS, or from a drive connected
             through a PCMCIA card.  [NOTE: at this time there is no support
             for actually installing onto a PCMCIA device]

text.bat     A rootdisk that uses text-based install scripts.  This is
             preferred by some people, but may not have as many features as
             the color.gz, umsdos.gz, or pcmcia.gz rootdisks.  One advantage
             is that you can back up to look at error messages using
             Shift-PageUp.  Another useful feature is the ability to install
             using a serial console with this command on the bootdisk's
             'boot:' prompt:   ramdisk console=ttyS0

  There's also this non-installation rootdisk:

rescue.bat   This is a rescue disk for Linux.  It is a reasonably complete
             mini-Linux system running from a four megabyte ramdisk.  
             It contains an editor (vi), lilo, and other utilities useful for
             fixing your Linux machine if you ever get locked out for some
             reason.  It includes basic TCP/IP utilities such as ping, telnet,
             and ftp.

