
  Slackware SCSI bootdisks
  ------------------------

  This directory contains a collection of batch files used to create Slackware
  bootdisks.  To create a disk, just put a formatted floppy disk in your drive
  and choose one of the options listed below to make the disk.  Read all of the
  choices carefully to pick the disk that best matches the hardware in your
  machine.  NOTE:  Using the VIEW program to create the Slackware bootdisks
  may not work under Windows.  If you're running Windows95 or 98, you should
  restart your machine in MS-DOS mode before creating a bootdisk.

  NOTE:  In addition to some sort of SCSI support, all of these disks contain
         support for IDE hard drives and CDROM drives.  So, if you're running
         a mixed IDE/SCSI system, the kernels on these disks will be able to
         handle the situation just fine.  Look for the disk below containing
         support for your SCSI controller card.  

  Name        Additional driver support
  ----        -------------------------

scsi.bat           A generic SCSI bootdisk, with support for most SCSI
                   controllers that work under Linux.  (NOTE: This disk
                   wastes a lot of memory, since it contains nearly *all*
                   of the SCSI drivers.  If you know which SCSI controller
                   your system has, it's *far* better to use the disk 
                   designed especially for it.  But, if you don't know,
                   then this generic disk might just work for you.)

scsinet.bat        Supports most SCSI controllers, plus many of the most
                   common ethernet cards.  Use this for installing over a
                   network to a SCSI drive.  (Or you can also use the
                   bootdisk for your SCSI controller plus the appropriate
                   ethernet module.  See the README files in the ../modules
                   directory if you want to try this approach)
                   NOTE:  Don't be too surprised if scsinet.s causes your
                   machine to hang.  It's loaded with nearly every SCSI
                   and network driver for Linux, and unless your hardware
                   is well behaved, the probing process can freeze your
                   machine.  If that happens, don't panic, just use a
                   disk with less drivers.  If you're not installing over
                   the network, the disk designed for your SCSI controller
                   is the right choice.  If you need network support, use
                   the disk designed for your SCSI card, plus put 'insmod'
                   and the required network modules on another floppy to
                   load before running setup.  The README files in the
                   ../modules directory explain this process in detail.

