
  Slackware IDE bootdisks
  -----------------------

  This directory contains a collection of batch files used to create Slackware
  bootdisks.  To create a disk, just put a formatted floppy disk in your drive
  and choose one of the options listed below to make the disk.  Read all of the
  choices carefully to pick the disk that best matches the hardware in your
  machine.  NOTE:  Using the VIEW program to create the Slackware bootdisks
  may not work under Windows95 and 98.  If you're running Windows, you should
  restart your machine in MS-DOS mode before creating a bootdisk.

  NOTE:  All of these disks contain support for IDE hard drives and CDROM
         drives.  If you have additional equipment, look for the disk that
         supports it.

  Name        Additional driver support
  ----        -------------------------

bare.bat           This is the disk to use for installation on most IDE
                   based PCs.  It includes support for IDE/ATAPI CD-ROM
                   drives.  Most CD-ROM drives made today fall into this
                   catagory.
  
net.bat            An IDE/ATAPI bootdisk with Ethernet support.  Use this
                   for installing over a network to an IDE hard drive.

                   NOTE:  net.i, while a nice shortcut if it works, does
                   not work on every machine, nor does it include every
                   Linux network driver.  Because of the large number of
                   devices it looks for, it can hang the machine or cause
                   other problems if it misidentifies something.  This is
                   an unavoidable risk when probing for hardware on the PC
                   platform.

                   If you run into problems with net.i (or it doesn't see
                   your network card), don't panic, just use a disk with
                   less drivers.  If you're not installing over the
                   network, bare.i is probably the right choice.  If you
                   need network support, use bare.i, plus put 'insmod' and
                   the required network modules on another floppy to load
                   before running setup.  The README files in the 
                   ../modules directory explain this process in detail.

                   This disk also includes PLIP support, but you'll need
                   to pass a parameter to the kernel to tell the parallel
                   port driver which IRQ to use.  For example, if you want
                   to use a parallel port on 0x378, IRQ 7, you would use
                   this command on the bootdisk's 'boot:' prompt:

                   ramdisk parport=0x378,7

                   You may also use this command to make the driver
                   autodetect your port and IRQ:

                   ramdisk parport=auto

